New Azure prepare account page (#2221)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/getting-started/prepare-your-provider-account/azure/_index.md

linkTitle: Prepare your Azure account
description: Prepare your Azure account to start building your cloud-native developer platform with Giant Swarm.
weight: 20
last_review_date: 2024-05-28
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
user_questions:
  - How do I prepare my Azure account for the cloud-native developer platform?
  - What do I need to do to prepare my Azure account for the cloud-native developer platform?
---

In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your Azure subscriptions, several prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider for Azure (CAPZ).

## Requirements

To create and assign the role to Giant Swarm's Service Principal you need:

- An account with [Owner](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#owner) or [User Access Administrator](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#user-access-administrator) role.
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) installed.

### Service quotas {#quotas}

> <!-- DO WE NEED TO DO THAT BY DEFAULT LIKE IN AWS? -->

Author: Reading from the checklist, we reference a page with limits in Azure, but do our customers bump the default limits for any of the resources?

### Permissions

#### Controller permissions {#iam-azure-operator-role}

> <!-- SHOULD BE THGIS CHANGE BY https://capz.sigs.k8s.io/topics/getting-started or we have some docs -->

Author: I think this needs to be rewritten for CAPZ. I'm not sure if we already have docs or if I need to base my work on the upstream reference. @T-Kukawka do you know?

linkTitle: Prepare your Azure account
description: Prepare your Azure account to start building your cloud-native developer platform with Giant Swarm.
weight: 20
last_review_date: 2024-05-28
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
user_questions:
  - How do I prepare my Azure account for the cloud-native developer platform?
  - What do I need to do to prepare my Azure account for the cloud-native developer platform?
---

> When running the Giant Swarm platform in your Azure subscription, several prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider for Azure (CAPZ). In the current implementation, management and workload clusters must run in the same subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running the Giant Swarm platform in your Azure subscription, several prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider Azure (CAPZ). In the current implementation, management and workload clusters must run in the same subscription.
```

Reference: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure

In addition to the following prerequisites, your account engineer will provide you with a pre-installation checklist that you must complete before starting the installation process.

## Requirements

1. The Azure subscription must be chosen from existing ones or created if needed in the customer's Azure account. For security reasons regarding sensitive data stored within customer accounts, the advice is to use a subscription-only designated for Giant Swarm Azure resources management.

2. An individual has to have the following permissions and tools working within the designated Azure subscription:

    * An account with [Owner](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#owner) or [User Access Administrator](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#user-access-administrator) role.

>     * [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) installed and configured to point to chosen subscription via [az account set](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-set) command.

Reviewer: Let's use literal formatting for terminal commands

```suggestion
    * [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) installed and configured to point to chosen subscription via [`az account set`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-set) command.
```

### Service quotas {#quotas}

> Azure enforces [service quota through all the cloud services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits). The following overview lists the usual resources you may adjust depending on number of clusters and their size planned to be deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure enforces [service quota through all cloud services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits). The following overview lists the usual resources you may adjust depending on number of clusters and their size planned to be deployed:
```

![Azure quotas list](./quotas_general.png)

Access to the [Quotas portal service](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Capacity/QuotaMenuBlade/~/myQuotas) to check and adjust quotas as required. You can also use the Azure CLI to check quotas like:

```sh
az vm list-usage --location <region>
```

> If your current quotas are insufficient, you can request an increase. In the portal, there is no CLI command, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your current quotas are insufficient, you can request an increase. In the Azure portal, follow the steps below:
```

> * Go to the **Quotas** section in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Capacity/QuotaMenuBlade/~/myQuotas).
> * Click on pencil button to **request an update**.
> * Fill the new limit and submit the request.

Reviewer: For a step-by-step process, a numbered list seems more appropriate to me.

```suggestion
1. Go to the **Quotas** section in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Capacity/QuotaMenuBlade/~/myQuotas).
2. Click on pencil button to **request an update**.
3. Fill the new limit and submit the request.
```

> <img src="./quota_editing.png" style="border: solid 1px aliceblue; margin: 8px 0;" alt="Azure quotas edit" />

Reviewer: Please use Markdown for image embedding

```suggestion
![Azure quotas edit](quota_editing.png)
```

You can follow the request status in the **Quotas** section.

### Permissions

> There are two permissions roles that need to be created in the Azure subscription. One for the Giant Swarm controller used by the CAPZ controller in the management cluster to provision all infrastructure to manage workload clusters, and the other for Giant Swarm engineers to access the Azure account for support purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two permission roles that need to be created in the Azure subscription. One for the Giant Swarm controller used by the CAPZ controller in the management cluster to provision all infrastructure to manage workload clusters, and the other for Giant Swarm engineers to access the Azure account for support purposes.
```

Also, maybe this would better be a bullet list?

> ### Staff permissions {#iam-staff-role}

Reviewer 2: We don't mention Azure Lighthouse anywhere

Author: I still dont have clear if that is replacing the deployment environment step or if it is additional

Reviewer 2: `[Azure Deployment Environment]` is just a way to deploy the configuration for Azure Lighthouse

Reviewer 2: also i don't see my suggestion anywhere now :D

Author: it was already in the paragraph below -> https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/2221/files#diff-f35263e126905d250bab00ca9971625aabb637d3adfb28194f602c4198018220R57

otherwise I find it repetitive, don't you think?

> Firstly, you need to grant access to Giant Swarm Ops/Support to your Azure subscription. Access to the portal is important for our 24/7 support, where investigation and manual interventions are sometimes necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firstly, you need to grant access to Giant Swarm Ops/Support to your Azure subscription. Access to the portal is important for our 24/7 support, where investigation and manual interventions are sometimes necessary. In Azure environment there is a solution available called [Azure Lighthouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/lighthouse/overview), which allows to delegate resource managements towards service providers such as Giant Swarm
```

> Firstly, you need to grant access to Giant Swarm Ops/Support to your Azure subscription. Access to the portal is important for our every day support, where investigation and manual interventions are sometimes necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, you need to grant access to Giant Swarm ops/support to your Azure subscription. Access to the portal is important for our every day support, where investigation and manual interventions are sometimes necessary.
```

> The easiest way is to create an [Azure Deployment Environment](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/deployment-environments) to delegate resource management to third parties. In this case, you must allow the Giant Swarm Staff group to manage your resources. This is beneficial as you don't have to manage access for each person separately within your subscription, instead you add a managed group that's kept up to date by Giant Swarm. There is a solution available called [Azure Lighthouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/lighthouse/overview), which allows to delegate resource managements towards service providers such as Giant Swarm.

Reviewer: Assuming that "Giant Swarm Staff" is the name of the group, please format it as a literal.

```suggestion
The easiest way is to create an [Azure Deployment Environment](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/deployment-environments) to delegate resource management to third parties. In this case, you must allow the `Giant Swarm Staff` group to manage your resources. This is beneficial as you don't have to manage access for each person separately within your subscription, instead you add a managed group that's kept up to date by Giant Swarm. There is a solution available called [Azure Lighthouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/lighthouse/overview), which allows to delegate resource managements towards service providers such as Giant Swarm.
```

    * Replace `<GiantSwarmTenantID>` and `<GiantSwarmPrincipalID>` with the values provided by Giant Swarm's Account Engineer
    * Keep the value of `roleDefinitionId` if you are fine assigning the `Contributor` role. If a custom role is desired, please replace the value.

* Now you can run this command to create the Deployment Environment:

    ```sh
    az deployment create --name "giantswarm-access" \
                         --location <AzureRegion> \
                         --template-file delegatedResourceManagement.json \
                         --parameters delegatedResourceManagement.parameters.json \
                         --verbose
    ```

    The `--name` value can be freely chosen in case you prefer another name.

### Controller permissions {#iam-azure-operator-role}

On the other hand, the automation requires an [Azure Service Principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/app-objects-and-service-principals?tabs=browser#service-principal-object), let's call it _Giant Swarm Service Principal_, to enable CAPZ controller to control the Azure resources.

#### Step 1 - Create the service principal

> The _Giant Swarm Service Principal_ can be created in two different ways: via Azure CLI or Azure Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Giant Swarm Service Principal_ can be created in two different ways: via the `az` CLI or the Azure portal.
```

> ##### Using az CLI

Reviewer: This headline looks like a typo. Here is a way to improve it: 

```suggestion
##### Using the Azure CLI
```

* Go to the "Certificates & secrets" section. Under the "Client secrets" part, create a new "Client Secret"
* Set expiration to `2 Days` and click "Add"
* Store the new secret's `Value`. Later, this needs to be provided to Giant Swarm.
* Add "RoleAssignment" to the newly created App

    * Select the right "Subscription" where the management cluster should be created
    * Go to "Access control (IAM)"
    * Click "Add Role Assignment" and add the "Contributor" role and the "User Access Administrator" role to the App with the "subscription" Scope

#### Step 2 - Provide generated credentials to Giant Swarm

The following information needs to be provided to Giant Swarm:

* ClientID
* ClientSecret
* SubscriptionID
* TenantID

**Note**: contact to your Account Engineer, who will help you to find a secure way to share this information. Our recommended tool is [Keybase](https://keybase.io/).

#### Step 3 - Post deployment cleanup

Once all necessary information is provided, our engineers create the management cluster. With the provided permissions, they work within your subscription to provision and validate the infrastructure, ensuring a seamless and efficient process.

> When Giant Swarm completes the management cluster provision, our engineers can clean up part of the initial setup. The _Giant Swarm Service Principal_ can be deleted as it's used only for the initial bootstrap, during which an [Azure user-assigned managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp) is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Giant Swarm completes the management cluster provisioning, our engineers can clean up part of the initial setup. The _Giant Swarm Service Principal_ can be deleted as it's used only for the initial bootstrap, during which an [Azure user-assigned managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp) is created.
```

### Virtual machine templates

#### Accept legal terms for Flatcar Linux

> Giant Swarm deploys [Flatcar Linux](https://www.flatcar-linux.org/) images for Kubernetes cluster nodes. It's developed by Kinvolk and taken from the Azure Marketplace. In order to be able to run the images, it's required by Azure to accept the legal terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm deploys [Flatcar Linux](https://www.flatcar-linux.org/) images for Kubernetes cluster nodes. It's developed by Kinvolk and taken from the Azure Marketplace. In order to be able to run the images, Azure requires customers to accept the legal terms.
```

Please run the following command prior to creating a cluster on a given subscription:

```sh
az vm image terms accept --offer flatcar-container-linux-free --plan stable --publisher kinvolk
```

**Note**: This acceptance needs to be performed only once for a subscription that's used to run Giant Swarm workload clusters.

#### Enable encryption at host

> To satisfy security department requirements, there is a possibility to enable [encryption of data stored on a virtual machine host](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/disks-enable-host-based-encryption-cli). The data is be encrypted at rest with platform-managed keys to ensure the security of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your security requirements demand this, there is a possibility to enable [encryption of data stored a virtual machine hosts](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/disks-enable-host-based-encryption-cli). With this enabled, your data will be stored and transferred between storage and host encrypted, adding additional protecting from unauthorized access to your data.
```
